note.md, before:

# Luta notes

## Efficiency and Technology

- Using LÖVE engine
- Small packets [as small as practically possible]
- Game hosted in the cloud, give rewards for donating server time
- Uses 'zones'. Maps are huge, and they're divided. Multiple instances (channels) may exist. Server can rezone whenever it wants to. This is done either to make up for a server disconnection, or to relieve stress.
- Use 'groups' to ensure everyone stays on the same channel. Also has a few other benefits, like shared EXP and money.

## Gameplay

- No "job advancements". Instead, many jobs, and **rank**.
- Rank is earned by doing quests. EXP is earned by hunting.
- Rank gives benefits such as titles, skills, and items.
- Level gives stat benefits (Health, Energy, Strength, etc.)
- Jobs can be switched in any town throughout the game, for a rank penalty to the previous job. Rank is job-dependent. Therefore, you can train a Crossbow-man job to a very high level (ex. rank 19 042), yet be low down in the Thief job (ex. rank 128).
- There are Melee, Charge, Block, and Skill attacks. Melee, Charge & Block are also skills, and they are job-dependent. They can be trained just as any other skill.
- Using a skill regularly and effectively will gain you training in it. Skills will level up as you become more proficient in them, giving added effectiveness.
- Skills can be activated using the Quickslot (q w e r a s d f) or the bottom panel
- Equip items can give skills and stats. An axe may provide the Melee skill (override), and a shield may provide, say, +50 Vitality +20 Defense and the Block skill (again, override).

## Art style

- HQ software synth music. Genres: Techno, Rock, Metal, Medieval
- Thick, curvy, black-outlined cartoon graphics. [Think: Paper Mario]
- Very colorful, but not too vivid. Monochromatic schemes are common for single objects.
- Antialiasing!!!! Yes, no icky pixel stairs. Smooth curves abound. (lol, not dissing pixel art styles though, I love those too but it's been done too much for this type of game. I want a 2D MMORPG that's *not* pixel-art. Truly though, I love Cave Story and various [S]NES games, probably more.)

## Setting

- A highly evolved [futuristic, even] society built around mythical creatures and magic. Yes, I know this has been done lots before, but not like this. Trust me on this one. This aims to achieve cartoon realism (er, as realistic as a cartoon can be... ^_^)
- TODO: Evolve the setting and story further.

## Interface & Graphics

- will scale to any native resolution
- has a big ribbon bar at the bottom with stats, $$$, minimap, a few buttons (quit and etc.), and quick windows (skills, character info, items, etc.)
- designed to work with a minimal amount of mouse usage.
- preeeety UI. lulz. do I even have to say? you should know me well enough by now.

Commit message:

a few changes... coming up - the server protocol

note.md, after:

# Luta notes

## Efficiency and Technology

- Using LÖVE engine
- Small packets [as small as practically possible]
- Game hosted in the cloud, give rewards for donating server time
- Uses 'zones'. Maps are huge, and they're pre-divided into these zones. There's also multiple copies of zones called "instances", a.k.a. "channels".
- Use 'groups' to ensure everyone stays on the same channel. Also has a few other benefits, like shared EXP and money. Grouping is really simple, you'd just right-click someone and press "Add to Group". Groups are broken upon logging out, and a maximum of <TBD> people can be grouped together at one time.
- Weather systems, time. Weather patterns move around throughout the world, and can have status effects and even give skills (one such example would be the "Lightningbolt" skill which shoots bolts of lightning out of your hands, only available during a lightning storm.) Each zone is able to decide its weather mappings. For example, a zone can crossover rain -> snow and vice versa, or can decide it will spawn blizzards, or kill tornadoes. Time of day can also affect the effectiveness of skills, and have status efffects. (ex. from 19:00 to 04:59 - health regeneration 2x, from 10:00 to 15:59 - energy regeneration 2x, and the Assassin skill "Cloak" is 5x effectiveness from 22:00 to 01:59, among others.)

## Gameplay

- No "job advancements". Instead, many jobs, and **rank**.
- Rank is earned by doing quests. EXP is earned by hunting.
- Rank gives benefits such as titles, skills, and items.
- Level gives stat benefits (Health, Energy, Strength, etc.)
- Jobs can be switched in any town throughout the game, for a rank penalty to the previous job. Rank is job-dependent. Therefore, you can train a Crossbow-man job to a very high level (ex. rank 19 042), yet be low down in the Thief job (ex. rank 128).
- There are Melee, Charge, Block, and Skill attacks. Melee, Charge & Block are also skills, and they are job-dependent. They can be trained just as any other skill.
- Using a skill regularly and effectively will gain you training in it. Skills will level up as you become more proficient in them, giving added effectiveness.
- Skills can be activated using the Quickslot (q w e r a s d f) or the bottom panel
- Equip items can give skills and stats. An axe may provide the Melee skill (override), and a shield may provide, say, +50 Vitality +20 Defense and the Block skill (again, override).

## Art style

- HQ software synth music. Genres: Techno, Rock, Metal, Medieval
- Thick, curvy, black-outlined cartoon graphics. [Think: Paper Mario]
- Very colorful, but not too vivid. Monochromatic schemes are common for single objects.
- Antialiasing!!!! Yes, no icky pixel stairs. Smooth curves abound. (lol, not dissing pixel art styles though, I love those too but it's been done too much for this type of game. I want a 2D MMORPG that's *not* pixel-art. Truly though, I love Cave Story and various [S]NES games, probably more.)

## Setting

- A highly evolved [futuristic, even] society built around mythical creatures and magic. Yes, I know this has been done lots before, but not like this. Trust me on this one. This aims to achieve cartoon realism (er, as realistic as a cartoon can be... ^_^)
- TODO: Evolve the setting and story further.

## Interface & Graphics

- will scale to any native resolution
- has a big ribbon bar at the bottom with stats, $$$, minimap, a few buttons (quit and etc.), and quick windows (skills, character info, items, etc.)
- designed to work with a minimal amount of mouse usage.
- preeeety UI. lulz. do I even have to say? you should know me well enough by now.
